## Sources
- Created by editing the "16 Guideline for Supervision of Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers（Provisional Translation）" (Financial Services Agency) 
- (https://www.fsa.go.jp/common/law/guide/kaisya/index.html)
- (https://www.fsa.go.jp/common/law/guide/kaisya/e016.pdf)

# 16 Guideline for Supervision of Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers（Provisional Translation）

## II. Supervisory Viewpoints of Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers
## II-2 Appropriateness of Business Operations, etc.
## II-2-2 Provision of Information and Consultation Function, etc. for Protection of Users
## II-2-2-3 Separate Management of Money, Crypto-Assets, and Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets Deposited by Users
## II-2-2-3-1 Purpose and Significance
When Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers receive deposits of money or Crypto-Assets from users, they are required to secure proper handling of the separate management of such users’ money and Crypto-Assets (hereinafter referred to as the “Users’ Property”) and the Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets (referring to the Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets prescribed in Article 63-11- 2(1) of the Act; the same shall apply hereinafter) pursuant to Article 63-11 and Article 63-11-2 of the Act as well as Articles 26, 27, and 29 of the Cabinet Office Order.

When supervising Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers, in order to confirm the appropriateness of their separate management of the Users’ Property and Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets (hereinafter referred to as “Users’ Property, etc.”), it is necessary to require them to submit a report on an external audit and internal audit on a regular or as needed basis as well as to pay attention to the following points based on the self-regulatory rules of the Japan Virtual and Crypto assets Exchange Association “Rules on Management of Users’ Property relating to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services” and the regulations, etc. designated by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency as prescribed in Articles 28 and 30 of the Cabinet Office Order.

## II-2-2-3-2 Major Supervisory Viewpoints
- (1) Recognition and involvement of the management team Does the management team of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Provider recognize the importance of the separate management of the User’s Property, etc., based on the understanding that separate management of the Users’ Property, etc. contributes to user protection? Also, does the management team receive a report on the status of the separate management of the Users’Property, etc. on a regular or as-needed basis and use it in developing a system to properly implement the separate management of the Users’ Property, etc. (including the establishment of an internal checking function)?
- (2) General viewpoints relating to separate management
    - (i) Do the internal rules of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider specifically provide for how to implement the separate management for each type of money and Crypto-Assets? In addition, are they reflected in the contract with each user?
    - (ii) Doesthe Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider clearly separate money and Crypto-Assets, which is its own property, from the Users’Property, etc. based on the implementation methods set forth in (i) above? And can the balance of money and/or the quantity of Crypto-Assets of individual users be ascertained immediately? Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider properly verify its compliance status?
    - (iii) Are the Crypto-Assets that the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider holds as its own property and the Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets clearly separated based on the implementation methods in (i) above? In addition, is it possible to identify immediately which one is the Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets? Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider properly verify its compliance status?
    - (iv) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manage users’ money based on the contract pertaining to the Segregated User Management Trusts that satisfy the requirements of each item of Article 26(1) of the Cabinet Office Order? And does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider calculate the individual amount of segregated user management and the required amount of segregated user management prescribed in item (vi) of the same paragraph every business day pursuant to the provision of paragraph (2) of the same Article?
    - (v) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established a department that is responsible for the separate management businesses? And does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider appoint those responsible for acceptance and payment of the Users’ Property, etc. and those responsible for crosschecking the balance of the Users’ Property, etc. by each type of money and Crypto-Assets, and then prohibit these persons responsible from engaging in the two functions at the same time? In addition, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider take measures to relocate and shift the persons responsible on a regular basis from the perspectives of preventing problematic conducts and wrongful acts?
- (3) Supervisory viewpoints regarding separate management of Crypto-Assets deposited by users (hereinafter referred to as the “Entrusted Crypto-Assets”) and Performance Guarantee CryptoAssets
    - (i) With regard to separate management in the case where Entrusted Crypto-Assets and Performance Guarantee Crypto-Assets (hereinafter referred to as the “Target Crypto-Assets”) are managed by the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider itself, does the Provider make sure to manage the Target Crypto-Assets in a different wallet from the wallet in which its own Crypto-Assets (excluding Performance Guarantee Crypto-Assets; hereinafter the same shall apply in (i)) are managed? Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider store the wallet for managing its own Crypto-Assets and the wallet for managing the Target Crypto-Assets in clearly segregated storages, respectively? For example, one conceivable way is to clearly separate devices for storing the wallets.
    - (ii) With regard to separate management in the case where management of the Target CryptoAssets is entrusted to a third party, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider make sure to have the third party manage the Target Crypto-Assets in a different wallet from the wallet in which Crypto-Assets other than the Target Crypto-Assets are managed? Does Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider have the third party store the wallet for managing the Target Crypto-Assets and the wallet for managing Crypto-Assets other than the Target Crypto-Assets in clearly segregated storages, respectively? For example, one conceivable way is to clearly separate devices for storing the wallets.
    - (iii) With regard to the management of the Target Crypto-Assets, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider taken necessary measures to prevent a situation in which the current quantity of the Target Crypto-Assets on networks such as a blockchain falls short of the balance of the Target Crypto-Assets on the books managed by the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider due to circumstances such as a case where transaction details are not reflected in networks such as a blockchain?
    - Note: In light of the self-regulatory rules of the Japan Virtual and Crypto assets Exchange Association “Rules on Management of Users’ Property relating to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services,” conceivable necessary measures, for example, can include a measure by which the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider stipulates in its internal rules the quantity of Crypto-Assets necessary to prevent a situation in which the current quantity of the Target Crypto-Assets on networks such as a blockchain falls short of the balance of the Target Crypto-Assets on the books managed by the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, while also commingling its own Crypto-Assets of the same type and up to the same quantity as the relevant Crypto-Assets’ in the wallet for managing the Target Crypto-Assets. (If the commingling exceeds said quantity, such commingling must be eliminated within five business days from the day following the date of occurrence.)
    - (iv) With regard to the management of the Target Crypto-Assets, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider reconcile the balance of the Target Crypto-Assets on the books managed by the Provider and the current quantity of the Target Crypto-Assets on networks such as a blockchain every business day? In addition, in cases where the reconciliation has revealed the current quantity of the Target Crypto-Assets is less than the balance of the Target CryptoAssets on the books, despite the measure set forth in (iii) above, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider analyze the cause and promptly resolve the shortfall?
    - Note: Such shortfall shall be resolved within five business days (in the case where the user can pay out the Entrusted Crypto-Assets within a period shorter than five business days based on the contract, such period) from the day immediately following the day of such shortfall.
    - (v) In cases where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manages the Target CryptoAssets on its own, does the Provider adopt any appropriate management methods to prevent the Target Crypto-Assets from being leaked to the outside, such as by recording and managing the secret keys, etc. necessary for transferring the Target Crypto-Assets on electronic devices that are always unconnected to the Internet, or by means of other equivalent technical security measures, except for the Entrusted Crypto-Assets that satisfy the requirements specified in Article 63-11(2) of the Act and Article 27(2) of the Cabinet Office Order (hereinafter referred to as the “Target Entrusted Crypto-Assets”)? Note that electronic devices, etc. that have been connected to the Internet even once do not fall under “electronic devices, etc. that are always unconnected to the Internet”.
    - Note: Whether an “equivalent technical security measure” has been taken needs to be substantively determined for each individual case in light of the actual situation. However, as an example, the following case is conceivable: While secret keys, etc. necessary to transfer Target Crypto-Assets are recorded and managed in an electronic device, etc. connected to the Internet only at the time of signature, the secret keys, etc. recorded in such electronic device, etc. are in a technical specification that can be signed in such electronic device, etc. without being transferred from such electronic device, etc. to the outside at all, and moreover the authenticity of transaction details is confirmed each time, as they are made by manually signing with such secret keys, etc.
    - (vi) In cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider entrusts the management of the Target Crypto-Assets to a third party, does the third party manage the Target Crypto-Assets, except for the Target Entrusted Crypto-Assets, in a manner that is reasonably deemed to ensure the same level of the user protection as in the case where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manages them on its own, in terms of protection of the Target CryptoAssets?
    - Note: Whether the manner corresponds to “a manner that is reasonably deemed to ensure the same level of the user protection as in the case where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manages them on its own” needs to be substantively determined for each individual case in light of the actual situation. However, for example, the following cases are conceivable.
        - • Case where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider entrusts the management of the Target Crypto-Assets to another Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider and where there is an agreement that the Target Crypto-Assets under the management of the other Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider will be promptly returned to the entrusting Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider in the event of the bankruptcy of the entrusting Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider or on the occurrence of other certain causes
        - • Case where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider entrusts the Target CryptoAssets to a trust company or the like and where the respective users of the CryptoAsset Exchange Service Provider will receive the Target Crypto-Assets in trust as the beneficiaries in the event of the bankruptcy of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider or on the occurrence of certain other causes
    - (vii) Upon the occurrence of a situation where the whole or part of the Target Crypto-Assets excluding the Target Entrusted Crypto-Assets are managed by methods other than those described in (v) and (vi) above, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider resolve the situation within one business day from the day following the day on which the situation occurred?
    - (viii) In cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider entrusts management of the Target Crypto-Assets to a third party, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider confirm that the entrusted third party complies with the matters listed in (2)(i) through (iii) and (v) above as well as (3)(ii) through (iv), (vi) and (vii) above, and that necessary responses to leakage risks are taken in accordance with II-2-2-4?
- (4) Separate Management Audits
    - (i) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider have necessary internal frameworks to deal with Separate Management Audits (which collectively refer to the separate management audit prescribed in Article 28(1) of the Cabinet Office Order and the audit of separate management of Performance Guarantee Crypto-Assets prescribed in Article 30 of the Cabinet Office Order; the same shall apply hereinafter)? (Such frameworks include, but are not limited to, the formulation of internal rules and manuals, and the establishment of response divisions.)
    - (ii) Are important matters identified and pointed out in Separate Management Audits reported without delay to the Board of Directors and company auditors or the Board of Company Auditors?
    - (iii) Are matters pointed out in Separate Management Audits improved within a certain period of time? In addition, does the Internal Audit Department properly grasp and verify the improvement status of the audit findings?
    - Note: Audit reports must be submitted to the competent Local Finance Bureau within four months from the base date of Separate Management Audits, in light of the selfregulatory rules of the Japan Virtual and Crypto assets Exchange Association “Rules on the Management of Users’ Property Pertaining to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services.”

## II-2-2-4 Responses to the Risk of Crypto-Asset Leakage
## II-2-2-4-1 Purpose and Significance
When a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider receives a Crypto-Asset as a deposit from a user, there is a risk that the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider may not be able to return the CryptoAsset to the user due to the leakage of the Crypto-Asset due to unauthorized access, etc., and thus the user may not be protected. Therefore, even in normal times, Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers are required to appropriately respond to such leakage risk through the development of internal control environments (including an internal audit environment suited to the nature of business) such as separate management and IT system risk management.
In fact, there have been multiple cases in which large amounts of Crypto-Assets have been leaked due to unauthorized access, etc., and thus the response to the risk of such leakage has become one of the most important issues in the management of Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers. When supervising Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers, in order to confirm whether they have been appropriately responding to the risk of the above-mentioned leakage, the supervisors shall pay attention to the following points, for example.

## II-2-2-4-2 Major Supervisory Viewpoints
- (1) Recognition and involvement of the management team Does the management team of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Provider recognize the importance of the response to the leakage risk, based on the understanding that the response to the leakage risk contributes to user protection? In addition, does the management team utilize reported information in developing a system to appropriately respond to the leakage risk through measures such as receiving reports on the response status to the leakage risk on a regular or as needed basis?
- (2) Identification and evaluation of the leakage risk
    - (i) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider identify and evaluate the Crypto-Asset leakage risk for each type of Crypto-Assets it handles?
    - Note: It should be noted that guidelines on security measures by the Association and related organizations with expert knowledge should also be referred to when identifying and evaluating the leakage risk.
    - (ii) In identifying the leakage risk, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, after taking into consideration circumstances such as the structure of the Crypto-Assets, the technology used for the Crypto-Assets, the internal system and network environment, and the operation leading to the use (signature) of the secret keys, etc. necessary for transferring the Target Crypto-Assets, uncover possible leakage situations (including, but not limited to, leakage, theft, unauthorized use, and loss of the secret key, etc.) and specifically identify the risks causing the leakage (including but not limited to clerical errors, internal fraud, and system malfunctions, in addition to cyberattacks)?
    - (iii) In evaluating the specified leakage risk, does Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider specifically analyze and evaluate the impact on the Target Crypto-Assets and other impacts on users and on its management that may arise from the exposure of the risk? Also, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider periodically review its risk evaluation? In addition, does the Provider make sure to review the risk assessment as necessary on the occurrence of a new event that could have a significant impact on the management of the Target CryptoAssets?
    - (iv) In cases where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider starts to handle a new Crypto Asset or to provide a new service, does it analyze the Crypto-Asset or the service, etc. prior to the provision and conduct the validation from the viewpoint of the leakage risk?
- (3) Reduction of the leakage risk
    - (i) In cases where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider has no choice but to manage the secret key(s), etc. in an environment connected to the Internet for reasons such as user convenience, does the Provider, within the scope of the requirements prescribed in Article 63- 11(2) of the Act and Article 27(2) of the Cabinet Office Order, take measures, such as stipulating in the internal rules the upper limit of the Entrusted Crypto-Assets whose secret keys, etc. are managed in said environment, and then managing the secret keys, etc. within said upper limit?
    - (ii) In addition to (i) above, in order to reduce the leakage risk, Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers need to refer to guidelines on security measures by the Association and related organizations with expert knowledge, while also taking into account changes in the leakage patterns and the technological progress, etc. Have they taken effective measures to reduce the leakage risk identified and evaluated in (2) above, including the following points, for example?
        - (A) In cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider transfers a Target Crypto-Asset, does the Provider have a system in which multiple persons in charge are involved in the transfer in accordance with procedures prescribed in advance in internal rules, etc.?
        - (B) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manage the secret keys, etc. in a way that they cannot be used (signed) by anyone other than the authorized personnel? In particular, in cases where the secret keys, etc. are managed by physical media such as hardware or paper, are they stored in an environment that cannot be accessed by anyone other than the authorized personnel, such as in a locked security room or a safety box?
        - (C) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider taken appropriate measures for the transfer of a Target Crypto-Asset, such as requiring an electronic signature using multiple secret keys, etc.? In cases where multiple secret keys, etc. are used, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manage them separately in different storage locations for each secret key, etc.?
        - (D) When transferring a Target Crypto-Asset, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider confirm that the transaction details pertaining to the transfer of the Target CryptoAsset are authentic?
        - (E) In cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider uses a mechanism in which Target Crypto-Assets are automatically transferred to the outside at the request of a user, has the Provider set the upper limit of the Target Crypto-Assets that can be transferred at one time or in a short time set?
        - (F) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider made backups in case the secret keys, etc. are lost? Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider also manage such backups safely based on II-2-2-3-2 (3) (v) and (vi) as well as (B) above?
        - (G) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider make the transfer procedure of the Target Crypto-Assets subject to internal audit?
- (4) Response in case of the leakage
    - (i) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established an IT monitoring system capable of immediately detecting any leakage of a Target Crypto-Asset as well as other internal control systems necessary for immediately detecting such leakage?
    - (ii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established an internal communication system to ensure that, in the case of detecting the leakage of a Target Crypto-Asset, the detected details are communicated to the management team promptly and with certainty.?
    - (iii) With regard to the response in the case of detecting the leakage of a Target Crypto-Asset, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider formulated a contingency plan that assumes the event of Target Crypto-Asset leakage and constructed any emergency systems that include the following measures for example?
        - (A) Measures necessary to prevent secondary damage
        - Note: For example, in cases where secret keys, etc. are stored in an environment connected to the Internet, the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider is required to consider necessary measures, according to the leakage situation and the characteristics of the stored Crypto-Assets, such as by isolating the secret keys, etc. immediately from the Internet; transferring the Crypto-Assets that are managed with such secret keys, etc. immediately to an environment that is not connected to the Internet; and checking whether other Crypto-Assets are affected.
        - (B) Responses to the affected users (including the establishment of a consultation desk and the like)
        - Note: In recovering from damage to users, it should be noted that measures must be taken in accordance with the policy on performance of obligationsset forth in Article 23(3) of the Cabinet Office Order.
        - (C) Reporting to and cooperation with the supervisory authorities, outsourced contractors, and other relevant parties
        - (D) Prompt cause analysis and consideration and implementation of new risk reduction measures
        - Note: It should be noted that preconditions for a prompt cause analysis are to appropriately preserve evidence on relevant servers, etc., and to record access logs, etc., that contain sufficient information to track events.

## II-2-2-8 Response to ICO
## II-2-2-8-1 Purpose and Significance
Although without a clear definition, an Initial Coin Offering (ICO) in general collectively means an activity to procure legal tender or Crypto-Assets from the public using a digital token issued by a company or other entity. In cases where a token issued through an ICO falls under the category of Crypto-Assets as defined in Article 2(5) of the Act, the act of selling or exchanging the token for another Crypto-Asset as its business (hereinafter referred to as “sales” or “sell” in II-2-2-8) falls under the category of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services.
- Note 1: However, if a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider sells a token at the request of the issuer of the token, and the issuer does not sell the token at all, the issuer's act is not considered to be basically applicable to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services. It should be noted that the applicability of the issuer's act to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services shall be ultimately determined individually and specifically, after taking into consideration the content of the contract between the issuer and the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, the content of the sales activities, the degree of the issuer's involvement in the sales, and so on,
- Note 2: It should be noted that in cases where an ICO has the nature of an investment, such as the right of the token issuer to receive a distribution of future business profits, etc., is indicated on the token, the token is subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and is not subject to the Act.

Such an act is intended to raise funds through the sales of the token, but there may be cases where user protection is not sufficiently ensured, such as the occurrence of fraudulent cases or sloppily planned cases due to unclear contents of the rights of the token holder, failure to screen the feasibility of the project for which the funds are raised (hereinafter referred to as the “Target Project”), or failure to disclose necessary information. In light of the above, when supervising Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers who sell these tokens, the supervisory authorities shall request the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers to report the sales status of the tokens on a regular or as-needed basis in order to confirm whether the user protection and the appropriateness of their business are fully ensured. The supervisory authorities should also pay particular attention to the following points in light of the self-regulatory rules of the Japan Virtual and Crypto assets Exchange Association “Rules on Sales of New Crypto-Assets.”

## II-2-2-8-2 Major Supervisory Viewpoints
- (1) Cases where the issuer sells the token on its own
    - (i) Does the issuer properly examine and verify the eligibility and feasibility of the Target Project, as well as the appropriateness of the token it handles?
    - (ii) Does the issuer provide customers with information on the issuer, the existence or nonexistence and content of obligations owed to token holders, the basis for calculating the sales price of the token, the business plan document concerning the Target Project, and the feasibility of the Project, etc. when it sell the token?
    - Note: In providing information on the Target Project, the issuer should kept in mind that the objectivity and appropriateness of such information are required so that customers do not have unfounded expectations.
    - (iii) Does the issuer continuously or timely disclose, in an appropriate manner, the issuer’s financial conditions, the sales status of the token, the progress status of the Target Project, and other matters that will affect the decision on the purchase and sale of the token, etc.?
    - (iv) Does the issuer manage the funds raised through the token sales separately from other funds and appropriately manage them, such as by not using them for purposes other than those disclosed to users in advance?
    - (v) Does the issuer verify the safety of each blockchain and smart contract used for the token, the wallet in which the token is stored and other systems that affect the quality of the token, and verify the safety of the systems on a regular or as needed basis, even after the token sales?
    - (vi) Does the issuer examine the appropriateness of the sales price in advance in order to prevent the token being sold in extremely inappropriate conditions in terms of the quantity, the price, and so on?
- (2) Cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider sells the token on behalf of the issuer
In cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider sells the token on behalf of the issuer, the supervisory authorities shall pay attention to the following points, in addition to (1)(i)), (ii), (v), and (vi) above.
    - (i) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established appropriate rules concerning the examination of not only the eligibility and feasibility of the Target Project, and the appropriateness of the token it handles, but also the issuer’s financial conditions and other matters that contribute to judging the appropriateness of the token sales? And then does the Provider conduct substantive examinations in a proper manner? In addition, has the CryptoAsset Exchange Service Provider established a system that enables it to verify the results of such examinations?
    - (ii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established a system to appropriately conduct examinations, such as by ensuring the independence of the division in charge of such examinations from the sales department in terms of its functions and effects? Also, for selling the token, does it have a function to verify and evaluate conflicts of interest with other internal divisions? Moreover, based on such a function, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider developed a control environment to appropriately prevent a situation where a conflict of interest arises?
    - (iii) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider conduct necessary monitoring to ensure appropriate information disclosure by the issuer? And has it established a system to allow users to easily access information disclosed by the issuer?
    - (iv) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider conduct necessary monitoring to ensure appropriate management of the funds procured by the issuer?
    - (v) In addition to (iii) and (iv) above, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider conduct necessary monitoring of the issuer so that necessary measures are taken to protect users? If the issuer has not taken necessary measures to protect users, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider make sure to take appropriate measures, such as suspending the token sales? Does the contract with the issuer provide the authority necessary to take such measures?
