## Sources
- Created by editing the "16 Guideline for Supervision of Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers（Provisional Translation）" (Financial Services Agency) 
- (https://www.fsa.go.jp/common/law/guide/kaisya/index.html)
- (https://www.fsa.go.jp/common/law/guide/kaisya/e016.pdf)

# 16 Guideline for Supervision of Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers（Provisional Translation）

## II. Supervisory Viewpoints of Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers
## II-2 Appropriateness of Business Operations, etc.
## II-2-2 Provision of Information and Consultation Function, etc. for Protection of Users
## II-2-2-3 Separate Management of Money, Crypto-Assets, and Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets Deposited by Users
## II-2-2-3-1 Purpose and Significance
When Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers receive deposits of money or Crypto-Assets from users, they are required to secure proper handling of the separate management of such users’ money and Crypto-Assets (hereinafter referred to as the “Users’ Property”) and the Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets (referring to the Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets prescribed in Article 63-11- 2(1) of the Act; the same shall apply hereinafter) pursuant to Article 63-11 and Article 63-11-2 of the Act as well as Articles 26, 27, and 29 of the Cabinet Office Order.

When supervising Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers, in order to confirm the appropriateness of their separate management of the Users’ Property and Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets (hereinafter referred to as “Users’ Property, etc.”), it is necessary to require them to submit a report on an external audit and internal audit on a regular or as needed basis as well as to pay attention to the following points based on the self-regulatory rules of the Japan Virtual and Crypto assets Exchange Association “Rules on Management of Users’ Property relating to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services” and the regulations, etc. designated by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency as prescribed in Articles 28 and 30 of the Cabinet Office Order.

## II-2-2-3-2 Major Supervisory Viewpoints
- (1) Recognition and involvement of the management team Does the management team of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Provider recognize the importance of the separate management of the User’s Property, etc., based on the understanding that separate management of the Users’ Property, etc. contributes to user protection? Also, does the management team receive a report on the status of the separate management of the Users’Property, etc. on a regular or as-needed basis and use it in developing a system to properly implement the separate management of the Users’ Property, etc. (including the establishment of an internal checking function)?
- (2) General viewpoints relating to separate management
    - (i) Do the internal rules of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider specifically provide for how to implement the separate management for each type of money and Crypto-Assets? In addition, are they reflected in the contract with each user?
    - (ii) Doesthe Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider clearly separate money and Crypto-Assets, which is its own property, from the Users’Property, etc. based on the implementation methods set forth in (i) above? And can the balance of money and/or the quantity of Crypto-Assets of individual users be ascertained immediately? Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider properly verify its compliance status?
    - (iii) Are the Crypto-Assets that the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider holds as its own property and the Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets clearly separated based on the implementation methods in (i) above? In addition, is it possible to identify immediately which one is the Performance-Guarantee Crypto-Assets? Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider properly verify its compliance status?
    - (iv) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manage users’ money based on the contract pertaining to the Segregated User Management Trusts that satisfy the requirements of each item of Article 26(1) of the Cabinet Office Order? And does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider calculate the individual amount of segregated user management and the required amount of segregated user management prescribed in item (vi) of the same paragraph every business day pursuant to the provision of paragraph (2) of the same Article?
    - (v) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established a department that is responsible for the separate management businesses? And does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider appoint those responsible for acceptance and payment of the Users’ Property, etc. and those responsible for crosschecking the balance of the Users’ Property, etc. by each type of money and Crypto-Assets, and then prohibit these persons responsible from engaging in the two functions at the same time? In addition, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider take measures to relocate and shift the persons responsible on a regular basis from the perspectives of preventing problematic conducts and wrongful acts?
- (3) Supervisory viewpoints regarding separate management of Crypto-Assets deposited by users (hereinafter referred to as the “Entrusted Crypto-Assets”) and Performance Guarantee CryptoAssets
    - (i) With regard to separate management in the case where Entrusted Crypto-Assets and Performance Guarantee Crypto-Assets (hereinafter referred to as the “Target Crypto-Assets”) are managed by the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider itself, does the Provider make sure to manage the Target Crypto-Assets in a different wallet from the wallet in which its own Crypto-Assets (excluding Performance Guarantee Crypto-Assets; hereinafter the same shall apply in (i)) are managed? Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider store the wallet for managing its own Crypto-Assets and the wallet for managing the Target Crypto-Assets in clearly segregated storages, respectively? For example, one conceivable way is to clearly separate devices for storing the wallets.
    - (ii) With regard to separate management in the case where management of the Target CryptoAssets is entrusted to a third party, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider make sure to have the third party manage the Target Crypto-Assets in a different wallet from the wallet in which Crypto-Assets other than the Target Crypto-Assets are managed? Does Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider have the third party store the wallet for managing the Target Crypto-Assets and the wallet for managing Crypto-Assets other than the Target Crypto-Assets in clearly segregated storages, respectively? For example, one conceivable way is to clearly separate devices for storing the wallets.
    - (iii) With regard to the management of the Target Crypto-Assets, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider taken necessary measures to prevent a situation in which the current quantity of the Target Crypto-Assets on networks such as a blockchain falls short of the balance of the Target Crypto-Assets on the books managed by the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider due to circumstances such as a case where transaction details are not reflected in networks such as a blockchain?
    - Note: In light of the self-regulatory rules of the Japan Virtual and Crypto assets Exchange Association “Rules on Management of Users’ Property relating to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services,” conceivable necessary measures, for example, can include a measure by which the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider stipulates in its internal rules the quantity of Crypto-Assets necessary to prevent a situation in which the current quantity of the Target Crypto-Assets on networks such as a blockchain falls short of the balance of the Target Crypto-Assets on the books managed by the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, while also commingling its own Crypto-Assets of the same type and up to the same quantity as the relevant Crypto-Assets’ in the wallet for managing the Target Crypto-Assets. (If the commingling exceeds said quantity, such commingling must be eliminated within five business days from the day following the date of occurrence.)
    - (iv) With regard to the management of the Target Crypto-Assets, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider reconcile the balance of the Target Crypto-Assets on the books managed by the Provider and the current quantity of the Target Crypto-Assets on networks such as a blockchain every business day? In addition, in cases where the reconciliation has revealed the current quantity of the Target Crypto-Assets is less than the balance of the Target CryptoAssets on the books, despite the measure set forth in (iii) above, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider analyze the cause and promptly resolve the shortfall?
    - Note: Such shortfall shall be resolved within five business days (in the case where the user can pay out the Entrusted Crypto-Assets within a period shorter than five business days based on the contract, such period) from the day immediately following the day of such shortfall.
    - (v) In cases where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manages the Target CryptoAssets on its own, does the Provider adopt any appropriate management methods to prevent the Target Crypto-Assets from being leaked to the outside, such as by recording and managing the secret keys, etc. necessary for transferring the Target Crypto-Assets on electronic devices that are always unconnected to the Internet, or by means of other equivalent technical security measures, except for the Entrusted Crypto-Assets that satisfy the requirements specified in Article 63-11(2) of the Act and Article 27(2) of the Cabinet Office Order (hereinafter referred to as the “Target Entrusted Crypto-Assets”)? Note that electronic devices, etc. that have been connected to the Internet even once do not fall under “electronic devices, etc. that are always unconnected to the Internet”.
    - Note: Whether an “equivalent technical security measure” has been taken needs to be substantively determined for each individual case in light of the actual situation. However, as an example, the following case is conceivable: While secret keys, etc. necessary to transfer Target Crypto-Assets are recorded and managed in an electronic device, etc. connected to the Internet only at the time of signature, the secret keys, etc. recorded in such electronic device, etc. are in a technical specification that can be signed in such electronic device, etc. without being transferred from such electronic device, etc. to the outside at all, and moreover the authenticity of transaction details is confirmed each time, as they are made by manually signing with such secret keys, etc.
    - (vi) In cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider entrusts the management of the Target Crypto-Assets to a third party, does the third party manage the Target Crypto-Assets, except for the Target Entrusted Crypto-Assets, in a manner that is reasonably deemed to ensure the same level of the user protection as in the case where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manages them on its own, in terms of protection of the Target CryptoAssets?
    - Note: Whether the manner corresponds to “a manner that is reasonably deemed to ensure the same level of the user protection as in the case where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manages them on its own” needs to be substantively determined for each individual case in light of the actual situation. However, for example, the following cases are conceivable.
        - • Case where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider entrusts the management of the Target Crypto-Assets to another Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider and where there is an agreement that the Target Crypto-Assets under the management of the other Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider will be promptly returned to the entrusting Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider in the event of the bankruptcy of the entrusting Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider or on the occurrence of other certain causes
        - • Case where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider entrusts the Target CryptoAssets to a trust company or the like and where the respective users of the CryptoAsset Exchange Service Provider will receive the Target Crypto-Assets in trust as the beneficiaries in the event of the bankruptcy of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider or on the occurrence of certain other causes
    - (vii) Upon the occurrence of a situation where the whole or part of the Target Crypto-Assets excluding the Target Entrusted Crypto-Assets are managed by methods other than those described in (v) and (vi) above, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider resolve the situation within one business day from the day following the day on which the situation occurred?
    - (viii) In cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider entrusts management of the Target Crypto-Assets to a third party, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider confirm that the entrusted third party complies with the matters listed in (2)(i) through (iii) and (v) above as well as (3)(ii) through (iv), (vi) and (vii) above, and that necessary responses to leakage risks are taken in accordance with II-2-2-4?
- (4) Separate Management Audits
    - (i) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider have necessary internal frameworks to deal with Separate Management Audits (which collectively refer to the separate management audit prescribed in Article 28(1) of the Cabinet Office Order and the audit of separate management of Performance Guarantee Crypto-Assets prescribed in Article 30 of the Cabinet Office Order; the same shall apply hereinafter)? (Such frameworks include, but are not limited to, the formulation of internal rules and manuals, and the establishment of response divisions.)
    - (ii) Are important matters identified and pointed out in Separate Management Audits reported without delay to the Board of Directors and company auditors or the Board of Company Auditors?
    - (iii) Are matters pointed out in Separate Management Audits improved within a certain period of time? In addition, does the Internal Audit Department properly grasp and verify the improvement status of the audit findings?
    - Note: Audit reports must be submitted to the competent Local Finance Bureau within four months from the base date of Separate Management Audits, in light of the selfregulatory rules of the Japan Virtual and Crypto assets Exchange Association “Rules on the Management of Users’ Property Pertaining to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services.”

## II-2-2-4 Responses to the Risk of Crypto-Asset Leakage
## II-2-2-4-1 Purpose and Significance
When a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider receives a Crypto-Asset as a deposit from a user, there is a risk that the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider may not be able to return the CryptoAsset to the user due to the leakage of the Crypto-Asset due to unauthorized access, etc., and thus the user may not be protected. Therefore, even in normal times, Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers are required to appropriately respond to such leakage risk through the development of internal control environments (including an internal audit environment suited to the nature of business) such as separate management and IT system risk management.

In fact, there have been multiple cases in which large amounts of Crypto-Assets have been leaked due to unauthorized access, etc., and thus the response to the risk of such leakage has become one of the most important issues in the management of Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers. When supervising Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers, in order to confirm whether they have been appropriately responding to the risk of the above-mentioned leakage, the supervisors shall pay attention to the following points, for example.

## II-2-2-4-2 Major Supervisory Viewpoints
- (1) Recognition and involvement of the management team Does the management team of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Provider recognize the importance of the response to the leakage risk, based on the understanding that the response to the leakage risk contributes to user protection? In addition, does the management team utilize reported information in developing a system to appropriately respond to the leakage risk through measures such as receiving reports on the response status to the leakage risk on a regular or as needed basis?
- (2) Identification and evaluation of the leakage risk
    - (i) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider identify and evaluate the Crypto-Asset leakage risk for each type of Crypto-Assets it handles?
    - Note: It should be noted that guidelines on security measures by the Association and related organizations with expert knowledge should also be referred to when identifying and evaluating the leakage risk.
    - (ii) In identifying the leakage risk, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, after taking into consideration circumstances such as the structure of the Crypto-Assets, the technology used for the Crypto-Assets, the internal system and network environment, and the operation leading to the use (signature) of the secret keys, etc. necessary for transferring the Target Crypto-Assets, uncover possible leakage situations (including, but not limited to, leakage, theft, unauthorized use, and loss of the secret key, etc.) and specifically identify the risks causing the leakage (including but not limited to clerical errors, internal fraud, and system malfunctions, in addition to cyberattacks)?
    - (iii) In evaluating the specified leakage risk, does Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider specifically analyze and evaluate the impact on the Target Crypto-Assets and other impacts on users and on its management that may arise from the exposure of the risk? Also, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider periodically review its risk evaluation? In addition, does the Provider make sure to review the risk assessment as necessary on the occurrence of a new event that could have a significant impact on the management of the Target CryptoAssets?
    - (iv) In cases where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider starts to handle a new Crypto Asset or to provide a new service, does it analyze the Crypto-Asset or the service, etc. prior to the provision and conduct the validation from the viewpoint of the leakage risk?
- (3) Reduction of the leakage risk
    - (i) In cases where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider has no choice but to manage the secret key(s), etc. in an environment connected to the Internet for reasons such as user convenience, does the Provider, within the scope of the requirements prescribed in Article 63- 11(2) of the Act and Article 27(2) of the Cabinet Office Order, take measures, such as stipulating in the internal rules the upper limit of the Entrusted Crypto-Assets whose secret keys, etc. are managed in said environment, and then managing the secret keys, etc. within said upper limit?
    - (ii) In addition to (i) above, in order to reduce the leakage risk, Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers need to refer to guidelines on security measures by the Association and related organizations with expert knowledge, while also taking into account changes in the leakage patterns and the technological progress, etc. Have they taken effective measures to reduce the leakage risk identified and evaluated in (2) above, including the following points, for example?
        - (A) In cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider transfers a Target Crypto-Asset, does the Provider have a system in which multiple persons in charge are involved in the transfer in accordance with procedures prescribed in advance in internal rules, etc.?
        - (B) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manage the secret keys, etc. in a way that they cannot be used (signed) by anyone other than the authorized personnel? In particular, in cases where the secret keys, etc. are managed by physical media such as hardware or paper, are they stored in an environment that cannot be accessed by anyone other than the authorized personnel, such as in a locked security room or a safety box?
        - (C) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider taken appropriate measures for the transfer of a Target Crypto-Asset, such as requiring an electronic signature using multiple secret keys, etc.? In cases where multiple secret keys, etc. are used, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manage them separately in different storage locations for each secret key, etc.?
        - (D) When transferring a Target Crypto-Asset, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider confirm that the transaction details pertaining to the transfer of the Target CryptoAsset are authentic?
        - (E) In cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider uses a mechanism in which Target Crypto-Assets are automatically transferred to the outside at the request of a user, has the Provider set the upper limit of the Target Crypto-Assets that can be transferred at one time or in a short time set?
        - (F) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider made backups in case the secret keys, etc. are lost? Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider also manage such backups safely based on II-2-2-3-2 (3) (v) and (vi) as well as (B) above?
        - (G) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider make the transfer procedure of the Target Crypto-Assets subject to internal audit?
- (4) Response in case of the leakage
    - (i) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established an IT monitoring system capable of immediately detecting any leakage of a Target Crypto-Asset as well as other internal control systems necessary for immediately detecting such leakage?
    - (ii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established an internal communication system to ensure that, in the case of detecting the leakage of a Target Crypto-Asset, the detected details are communicated to the management team promptly and with certainty.?
    - (iii) With regard to the response in the case of detecting the leakage of a Target Crypto-Asset, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider formulated a contingency plan that assumes the event of Target Crypto-Asset leakage and constructed any emergency systems that include the following measures for example?
        - (A) Measures necessary to prevent secondary damage
        - Note: For example, in cases where secret keys, etc. are stored in an environment connected to the Internet, the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider is required to consider necessary measures, according to the leakage situation and the characteristics of the stored Crypto-Assets, such as by isolating the secret keys, etc. immediately from the Internet; transferring the Crypto-Assets that are managed with such secret keys, etc. immediately to an environment that is not connected to the Internet; and checking whether other Crypto-Assets are affected.
        - (B) Responses to the affected users (including the establishment of a consultation desk and the like)
        - Note: In recovering from damage to users, it should be noted that measures must be taken in accordance with the policy on performance of obligationsset forth in Article 23(3) of the Cabinet Office Order.
        - (C) Reporting to and cooperation with the supervisory authorities, outsourced contractors, and other relevant parties
        - (D) Prompt cause analysis and consideration and implementation of new risk reduction measures
        - Note: It should be noted that preconditions for a prompt cause analysis are to appropriately preserve evidence on relevant servers, etc., and to record access logs, etc., that contain sufficient information to track events.

## II-2-2-8 Response to ICO
## II-2-2-8-1 Purpose and Significance
Although without a clear definition, an Initial Coin Offering (ICO) in general collectively means an activity to procure legal tender or Crypto-Assets from the public using a digital token issued by a company or other entity. In cases where a token issued through an ICO falls under the category of Crypto-Assets as defined in Article 2(5) of the Act, the act of selling or exchanging the token for another Crypto-Asset as its business (hereinafter referred to as “sales” or “sell” in II-2-2-8) falls under the category of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services.
- Note 1: However, if a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider sells a token at the request of the issuer of the token, and the issuer does not sell the token at all, the issuer's act is not considered to be basically applicable to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services. It should be noted that the applicability of the issuer's act to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services shall be ultimately determined individually and specifically, after taking into consideration the content of the contract between the issuer and the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, the content of the sales activities, the degree of the issuer's involvement in the sales, and so on,
- Note 2: It should be noted that in cases where an ICO has the nature of an investment, such as the right of the token issuer to receive a distribution of future business profits, etc., is indicated on the token, the token is subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and is not subject to the Act.

Such an act is intended to raise funds through the sales of the token, but there may be cases where user protection is not sufficiently ensured, such as the occurrence of fraudulent cases or sloppily planned cases due to unclear contents of the rights of the token holder, failure to screen the feasibility of the project for which the funds are raised (hereinafter referred to as the “Target Project”), or failure to disclose necessary information. In light of the above, when supervising Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers who sell these tokens, the supervisory authorities shall request the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers to report the sales status of the tokens on a regular or as-needed basis in order to confirm whether the user protection and the appropriateness of their business are fully ensured. The supervisory authorities should also pay particular attention to the following points in light of the self-regulatory rules of the Japan Virtual and Crypto assets Exchange Association “Rules on Sales of New Crypto-Assets.”

## II-2-2-8-2 Major Supervisory Viewpoints
- (1) Cases where the issuer sells the token on its own
    - (i) Does the issuer properly examine and verify the eligibility and feasibility of the Target Project, as well as the appropriateness of the token it handles?
    - (ii) Does the issuer provide customers with information on the issuer, the existence or nonexistence and content of obligations owed to token holders, the basis for calculating the sales price of the token, the business plan document concerning the Target Project, and the feasibility of the Project, etc. when it sell the token?
    - Note: In providing information on the Target Project, the issuer should kept in mind that the objectivity and appropriateness of such information are required so that customers do not have unfounded expectations.
    - (iii) Does the issuer continuously or timely disclose, in an appropriate manner, the issuer’s financial conditions, the sales status of the token, the progress status of the Target Project, and other matters that will affect the decision on the purchase and sale of the token, etc.?
    - (iv) Does the issuer manage the funds raised through the token sales separately from other funds and appropriately manage them, such as by not using them for purposes other than those disclosed to users in advance?
    - (v) Does the issuer verify the safety of each blockchain and smart contract used for the token, the wallet in which the token is stored and other systems that affect the quality of the token, and verify the safety of the systems on a regular or as needed basis, even after the token sales?
    - (vi) Does the issuer examine the appropriateness of the sales price in advance in order to prevent the token being sold in extremely inappropriate conditions in terms of the quantity, the price, and so on?
- (2) Cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider sells the token on behalf of the issuer
In cases where a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider sells the token on behalf of the issuer, the supervisory authorities shall pay attention to the following points, in addition to (1)(i)), (ii), (v), and (vi) above.
    - (i) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established appropriate rules concerning the examination of not only the eligibility and feasibility of the Target Project, and the appropriateness of the token it handles, but also the issuer’s financial conditions and other matters that contribute to judging the appropriateness of the token sales? And then does the Provider conduct substantive examinations in a proper manner? In addition, has the CryptoAsset Exchange Service Provider established a system that enables it to verify the results of such examinations?
    - (ii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established a system to appropriately conduct examinations, such as by ensuring the independence of the division in charge of such examinations from the sales department in terms of its functions and effects? Also, for selling the token, does it have a function to verify and evaluate conflicts of interest with other internal divisions? Moreover, based on such a function, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider developed a control environment to appropriately prevent a situation where a conflict of interest arises?
    - (iii) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider conduct necessary monitoring to ensure appropriate information disclosure by the issuer? And has it established a system to allow users to easily access information disclosed by the issuer?
    - (iv) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider conduct necessary monitoring to ensure appropriate management of the funds procured by the issuer?
    - (v) In addition to (iii) and (iv) above, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider conduct necessary monitoring of the issuer so that necessary measures are taken to protect users? If the issuer has not taken necessary measures to protect users, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider make sure to take appropriate measures, such as suspending the token sales? Does the contract with the issuer provide the authority necessary to take such measures?

## II-2-3 Administrative Operations
## II-2-3-1 IT System Risk Management
## II-2-3-1-1 Purpose and Significance
Information technology (IT) system risk refers to the risk of loss incurred by a user or a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider due to a computer system failure, malfunction, or other inadequacies, and/or the risk that a user or a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provide incurs a loss due to the unauthorized use of a computer. Because of the nature of their business, Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers often have sophisticated and complex information systems based on the Internet, and because Crypto-Assets have property value that can be electronically recorded in blockchains and transferred through networks, cyberattacks, which become increasingly sophisticated every day, pose the risk of unauthorized access to or leakage of important information. Therefore, in addition to regular risk evaluation, each Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider needs to grasp changes in the external environment, accidents, and incidents, and to evaluate risk in a timely manner such as by examining whether or not they affect its own systems. In particular, as external services (cloud, etc.) are often used, it is important to develop a control environment for outsourcing management. The safe and stable system operation is a major prerequisite for ensuring the reliability of the payment service system and Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers. It is extremely important to ensure the basic matters of system development and operation and to enhance and strengthen the overall control environment for managing IT system risk. To this end, each Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider needs to secure management resources, and the management team should take the initiative in such efforts as formulating IT strategies.

From these viewpoints, it is extremely important for the management team of a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider to show leadership, link information technologies to management strategies and thereby have “IT governance,” which is a mechanism to create corporate value through such initiatives, work properly and well.
Reference: Summary of Issues and Practices for Dialogue on IT Governance of Financial Institutions (June 2019)
In this regard, however, even if a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider fails to respond literally as described in each of the following supervisory viewpoints, it shall not be regarded as inappropriate if it is deemed that there are no particular problems from the viewpoint of user protection in light of the scale and characteristics of such Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider.

## II-2-3-1-2 Major Supervisory Viewpoints
- (1) Recognition of IT system risk
    - (i) Have officers and employees, including the representative director, fully recognized the importance of IT system risk, and formulated a basic policy for the company-wide management of IT system risk?
    - Also, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider review IT system risk regularly and revise the basic policy based on the results?
    - (ii) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider formulate an IT system strategy as part of its management strategy, and receive approval from the Board of Directors? It is desirable that such IT system strategy includes a medium- to long-term development plan.
    - (iii) Has the representative director recognized that prevention of an IT system failure and cybersecurity incident (hereinafter referred to as “IT system failures, etc.”) and efforts for speedy recovery on the occurrence of such IT system failures, etc. is an important issue for the management, and developed an appropriate control environment?
    - Note: “Cybersecurity incidents” refer to instances of cybersecurity being threatened by socalled “cyberattacks”, including unauthorized intrusion, theft, modification, and destruction of data, failure or malfunction of information systems, and execution of illegal computer programs and DDoS attacks, committed via the Internet through malicious use of information communication networks and information systems.
    - (iv) Does the Board of Directors appoint an officer who oversees and manages IT system, fully recognizing the importance of IT system risk? It is desirable that the officer in charge of IT systems should be a person who has sufficient knowledge and experience in IT systems to properly pursue the relevant operations.
    - (v) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider developed a control environment in which checks and balances are carried out, such as by having the IT System Risk Management Department monitor the IT Systems Department and by separating the person in charge of development from the person in charge of operation within the IT Systems Department?
    - (vi) Have the representative director and directors (or directors and executive officers in case where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider is a company with nominating committee, etc.) determined their specific responsibility to assume and response to take in case of crisis where an IT system failure, etc. occurs?
    Also, do they conduct drills giving directions by themselves and ensure the effectiveness thereof?
- (2) Control environment for managing IT system risk
    - (i) Has the Board of Directors established the risk management environment while fully understanding that, due to highly networked computer system, if risk becomes apparent, the impact would cause chain reaction, spread widely and seriously, and adversely affect the management of the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider?
    - (ii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established the basic policy for managing IT system risk? Does the basic policy for managing the IT system risk contain the security policy (a basic policy for proper protection of information assets of an organization) and the policy on outsourced contractors?
    - (iii) Is the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider basing the details of its control environment for managing the IT system risk on criteria that allow it to judge objective levels of its details? Also, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider revise, on a continual basis, its control environment for managing IT system risk according to identification and analysis of IT system failures, etc., results of implementation of risk management, progress of technology, etc.?
    - Note: It is desirable that such control environment for managing IT system risk is regularly evaluated by a third party (external organization).
- (3) Assessment of IT system risk
    - (i) Does the IT Systems Department recognize and assess risks periodically and in a timely manner by recognizing that risks are becoming diversified due to changes in the external environment, such as seen in the examples of IT system failures, etc. induced by large-scale transactions as a result of increased user channels and effortsto enhance information networks that bring more diverse and broad-based impact? In addition, does the Department take sufficient measures against identified risks, and then assess residual risks? Does it report such measures and assessment to the Board of Directors? Does the IT system risk include the following?
        - • Risks arising from the use of external services
        - • Risks arising from the disclosure, provision, and connection of API
    - (ii) Do the department in charge of users cooperate with the IT Systems Department at the time of introduction of new services and/or at the time of any change in the content and method of any service? And does the IT Systems Department evaluate relevant IT systems regardless of whether the system is newly developed or not?
- (4) Management of information security
    - (i) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider developed a policy, prepared organizational readiness, introduced internal rules, and developed an internal control environment in order to appropriately manage information assets? Also, is it making continuous efforts to improve its information security control environment through the PDCA cycle, taking notice of illegal incidents or lapses at other companies?
    - Note: Information assets refer to information itself and the information systems that handle it, including hardware, software, networks, etc. that make up the information systems.
    - (ii) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider manage information security by designating individuals responsible for it and clarifying their roles/responsibilities in efforts to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information? Also, are the individuals responsible for information security tasked to handle the security of IT system, data, and network management?
    - (iii) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider take measures to prevent unauthorized use of computer systems, unauthorized access, and intrusion by malicious computer programs such as computer viruses? Also, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider implemented physical security measures for the locations where information assets are handled, according to the importance of the information assets?
    - (iv) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider comprehensively identify, grasp and manage important information for which it should be responsible? Does the scope of important information to be identified by the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider cover information and data used in the course of business operations or stored in IT systems and kept by outsourced contractors and include data, for example, as listed below?
        - • Data stored in the areas within the IT system that are not used in ordinary operations
        - • Data output from the IT system for analyzing system failures
    - (v) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider assess importance and risks regarding important information that has been identified? Also, has it developed rules to manage information, such as those listed below, in accordance with the importance and risks of each type of information?
        - • Rules to encrypt or mask information
        - • Rules for utilizing information
        - • Rules on handling data storage media, etc.
    - (vi) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider introduced measures to discourage or prevent unauthorized access, unauthorized retrieval, data leakage, etc. such as those listed below, for important information?
        - • Provision of access rights limited to the extent necessary according to the respective roles of the utilization sites (including overseas ones)
        - • Provision of access rights limited to the extent necessary according to the authority of employees
        - • Storage and monitoring of access logs
        - • Introduction of mutual checking functions such as by separating the individuals in charge of development and those responsible for operations, or system administrators and system users, etc.
        - • Separation of the production environment from the test environment for testing a system, etc.
    - (vii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider introduced management rules, such as encryption and masking, for confidential information in particular among important information? Also, has it introduced rules regarding the management of encryption programs, encryption keys, and design specifications for encryption programs, etc.?
    - Note that “confidential information” refers to any information that may cause damage or loss to users and/or the company itself if it is disclosed or stolen, such as encryption keys, PINs, passwords, credit card information, etc.
    - (viii) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider give due consideration to the necessity of holding/disposing of, restricting access to, and taking outside, confidential information, and treat such information in a stricter manner?
    - (ix) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider periodically monitor its information assets to see whether they are managed properly according to management rules, etc., and review the control environment on an ongoing basis?
    - (x) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider conduct security education (including securities education at outsourced contractors) to all officers and employees in order to raise awareness of information security?
- (5) Cyber security management
    - (i) Has the Board of Directors, etc. introduced the necessary control environment upon recognizing the importance of cybersecurity amid increasingly sophisticated and cunning cyberattacks?
    - (ii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider introduced systems to maintain cybersecurity, such as those listed below, in addition to making the organization more secure and formulating internal rules?
        - • Monitoring systems against cyberattacks
        - • Systems to report cyberattacks and public-relation system when attacks occur
        - • Emergency measures by an in-house Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) and systems for early warning
        - • Systems of information collection and sharing through information-sharing organizations, etc.
    - (iii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider introduced a multi-layered defense system against cyberattacks that combines risk-based security measures respectively for inbound perimeter control, internal network security control, and outbound perimeter control?
        - • Security measures for inbound perimeter control (e.g. introduction of a firewall, anti-virus software, unauthorized intrusion detection system, unauthorized intrusion prevention system, etc.);
        - • Internal measures (e.g. proper management of privileged IDs and passwords, deletion of unnecessary IDs, monitoring of execution of specific commands, securing of production systems (between servers) (packet filtering and encryption of communications), separation of networks in development environments (including test-phase environments) and usephase environments, separation of network segments according to usage purposes, etc.)
        - • Security measures for outbound perimeter control (e.g. retrieval and analysis of communication/event logs, detecting/blocking inappropriate communication, etc.)
    - (iv) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider developed a control environment wherein the Provider promptly implements the following measures to prevent damage from expanding when cyberattacks occur?
        - • Identifying IP addresses of attackers, and blocking off attacks;
        - • Functions to automatically decentralize accesses against DDoS attacks; and
        - • Temporary suspension, etc. of the entire system or part thereof
    - Also, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider prepared procedures for follow-up investigations (forensic investigations), such as log preservation and image copy acquisition, in order to confirm the scope of impact and determine the cause?
    - (v) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider clearly established and systematically implemented procedures for regularly collecting, analyzing, and responding to information on vulnerabilities as well as threat information?
    In addition, are necessary measures introduced for vulnerabilities in the IT system, such as updating of the operating system and application of security patches, in a timely manner?
    - (vi) With regard to cybersecurity measures, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider assess its security levels periodically, such as by using security assessment (vulnerability assessment, source code assessment, and penetration testing, etc.) by a third party (an external organization) and make efforts to improve its security measures? Upon the occurrence of cybersecurity breaches in Japan and abroad, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider assess the relevant risks in a timely and appropriate manner?
    - (vii) When conducting non-face-to-face transactions using the Internet and other means of communication, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider introduced an appropriate authentication method that matches the risks of transactions, such as the following?
        - • Authentication methods that do not rely on fixed IDs/passwords, such as variable passwords and digital certificates
        - • Transaction authentication through multiple channels, such as by using, for example, a device that is different from a PC or a smartphone used for transactions; and
        - • Adoption of a trading password that is different from the login password, etc.
    - (viii) When conducting non-face-to-face transactions using the Internet and other means of communication, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider taken following anti-fraud measures, for example, corresponding to the business?
        - • Interrupting communications from invalid IP addresses
        - • Taking measures to encourage users to introduce and update security software that allows them to detect and remove viruses, etc.
        - • Introduction of a system to detect unauthorized log-ins, abnormal transactions, etc. and promptly notify such anomalies to users; and
        - • Displaying the last login (logoff) date and time on the screen, etc.
    - (ix) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider developed contingency plans against potential cyberattacks? And does it conduct exercises and review such plans? Also, does it participate in industry-wide exercises as necessary?
    - (x) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider formulated plans to train and develop personnel responsible for cybersecurity and implemented them?
- (6) IT system planning/development/management
    - (i) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider make continuous efforts to identify risks inherent in the current IT system and make investment in maintaining such efforts and eliminating risks in a planned manner?
    - (ii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider formulated rules for creating documents and programs related to design and development in accordance with the IT system development process? In the IT system design/development stage, the following items related to security should be included.
        • Clarifying specific security requirements
        • Taking measures to prevent any vulnerability in the system such as secure coding
    - Also, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider formulated rules concerning approval of the planning/development/transfer of development projects?
    - (iii) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider appoint and assign a responsible person to each IT system development project and manage the project according to the development plan?
    - (iv) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider formulated the rules and procedures for quality control that include the following?
        - • Reviewing and keeping records
        - • Formulating and evaluating the completion criteria for each process
        - • Making the performance design sufficient and managing the IT system capacity and the upper limit of performance
        - • Grasping the threshold limit during IT system development, etc.
    - (v) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established rules concerning IT system changes? Also, are documents related to IT system changes prepared? Are they approved by the responsible person?
    - (vi) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider formulated the rules and procedures for IT system management, taking into account the following points?
        - • Mechanism to efficiently isolate a problem at the time of detection in the monitoring setting
        - • Unified escalation rules for monitoring
        - • Incorporating records, approvals, and inspections into the work process
        - • Recording and retaining in writing the implementation status of operations related to IT system management, etc.
    - (vii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established the purpose, policy, and scope of application of IT system configuration management? Also, does it grasp the configuration in terms of the following points, and thereby confirm the effectiveness of such management?
        - • Physical resources (hardware, networks, servers, PCs, etc.)
        - • Logical resources (licenses, software, connection configurations, etc.)
        - • Cloud services, outsourcing to third parties, etc.
    - (viii) In developing IT systems, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider work out a test plan and conduct a test in an appropriate and sufficient manner, such as by involving the departments in charge of users in it?
    - (ix) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider secured personnel who are familiar with the mechanisms of the current IT system and have expertise in IT system planning, development, and operation management?
    - Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider formulated a specific plan for the succession of the current IT system structure and development technology and the development of human resources with expertise, and implemented them?
- (7) IT system audit
    - (i) Does the Internal Audit Department, which is independent from the IT Systems Department, conduct periodic IT system audits by personnel familiar with IT system matters?
    - Note: External audits may be used instead of internal audits if it is considered more effective to introduce IT system audits by external auditors.
    - (ii) Are the targets of IT system audits selected based on the assessed risks after the risk assessment of the entire operations?
    - (iii) Are the results of the IT system audit reported to the Board of Directors in a proper manner? Do the audited departments receive feedback from the Audit Department and make improvements according to the audit results?
- (8) Outsourcing management
    - (i) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, in selecting the outsourced contractors (including IT system-related subsidiaries), assess them based on selection criteria and give careful consideration?
    - (ii) When using externalservices such as cloud services, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider examine risks associated with the services used and take necessary measures?
    - For example, does it implement the following measures?
        - • Processing critical data
        - • Grasping the storage sites and ensuring authority to audit them
        - • Reflecting the authority to monitor, etc. in the contract
        - • Obtaining and evaluating assurance reports, etc.
    - (iii) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, in entering an outsourcing contract with an outsourced contractor, set out in the contract the division of roles and responsibilities with the outsourced contractor, audit authority, subcontracting procedures, level of services provided, etc.? Also, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider present to the outsourced contractor rules that its officers and employees are required to adhere to and security requirements, as well as define them in the contract, etc.?
    - (iv) Is risk management carried out properly in outsourced IT system work (including multi-tiered outsourcing)?
    - In particular, in cases where the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider outsources its IT system work to two or more contractors, related administrative work becomes complicated and a higher level of risk management is required. In this context, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider developed a control environment upon fully understanding such fact?
    - In cases where IT system-related administrative work is outsourced to contractors, too, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider properly manage the risk thereof in the same manner as outsourcing of IT system work?
    - (v) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, as an outsourcer, regularly check and monitor to confirm that outsourced work (including multi-tiered outsourcing) is carried out appropriately?
    - Also, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider take necessary measures not to leave everything to outsourced contractors by, for example, placing its staff at an outsourced contractor’s site to monitor the outsourced work, etc.?
    - In addition, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider put in place a control environment that allows the Provider, as an outsourcer, to monitor and track the status of user data being processed at outsourced contractors?
    - (vi) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider audit its important outsourced contractors by its Internal Audit Department or IT system auditors, etc. and/or obtain any reports on internal control of outsourced contractors?
    - Reports deemed as “reports on internal control of outsourced contractors” refer to, for example, the IT Committee Practical Guidelines No. 7, the “assurance reports on internal control over security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality, and privacy of entrusted services” published by the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA), or the Audit and Assurance Practice Committee Practical Guidelines No. 86, the “assurance report on internal control of entrusted business” (JICPA).
- (9) Contingency plan
    - (i) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider formulated a contingency plan and prepared written procedures in line with the plan?
    - In addition, has the Provider established an emergency system that includes important outsourced contractors?
    - (ii) Is the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider basing the details of its contingency plan on guides that allow it to judge objective levels of its details (such as “Manual for the Development of Contingency Plans in Financial Institutions (Plans for Measures in the Event of Emergencies)” compiled by the Center for Financial Industry Information Systems)?
    - (iii) When formulating a contingency plan, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider assume not only contingencies due to natural disasters but also IT system failures, etc. due to internal or external factors?
    - Also, does the plan include sufficient risk scenarios assuming the following risks?
        - • Cyberattack
        - • Disaster and pandemic
        - • IT system failure
        - • Information leakage, etc.
    - (iv) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider review assumed scenarios in its contingency plan in a timely and appropriate manner by, for example, taking into consideration case studies of IT system failures, etc. at other Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Providers and results of deliberations at the Central Disaster Management Council, etc.?
    - (v) Does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider regularly conduct a drill based on its contingency plan?
    - Also, has the Provider established a framework for systematically reviewing and expanding its contingency plan based on such drill results?
    - It is desirable that drills based on the contingency plan are conducted at the company-wide level and jointly with outsourced contractors, etc.
    - (vi) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider introduced off-site backup IT systems, etc. in advance for important IT systems whose failure could seriously affect business operations? And has it developed a control environment to address disasters or IT system failures, etc. so that normal business operations can be speedily brought back?
    - Also, has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider taken measures in case of data loss, such as taking backup of data on a regular basis?
- (10)Response to IT system failures
    - (i) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider developed a control environment, upon assuming a worst-case scenario in preparation for IT system failures, etc. to take necessary measures accordingly?
    - In addition, does it take measures to minimize the impact on users in the event of an IT system failure, etc.?
    - (ii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider clarified reporting procedures and the framework of command and supervision covering outsourced contractors in preparation for IT system failures, etc.?
    - (iii) Upon occurrence of an IT system failure, etc. that may significantly affect its business operations, is the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider prepared to promptly notify the representative director and other directors and report the greatest potential risk it poses under the worst-case scenario (for example, if there is a possibility that the failure could gravely affect users, the reporting persons should not underestimate the risk but immediately report the highest risk scenario)?
    - In addition, is it prepared to launch a task force, have the representative director, etc. issue appropriate instructions and orders, and seek resolution of the issue in a swift manner?
    - (iv) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider clearly established the support framework for IT system failures, etc. to promptly gather experts having relevant know-how and experience from the IT Systems Department, other departments, or outsourced contractors, for example, through prior registration of these experts?
    - (v) When an IT system failure, etc. occurs, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider disclose the details of the failure, the cause of the failure, and expected recovery time, and does it promptly take measures, such as establishing call centers and consultation desks as necessary, and asking the Association for help in responding, if it is a member of the
    - Association, in order to properly respond to inquiries from customers?
    - Also, does the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider clarify arrangements and procedures as to how to provide relevant business departments with necessary information in preparation for IT system failures, etc.?
    - (vi) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider conducted analysis of causes of IT system failures, etc., investigation about impact until recovery, corrective action, and preventive measures for recurrence based on its analysis of the underlying causes in a proper manner?
    - Also, does it prepare an IT system failure record ledger or any other similar document, periodically analyze tendencies of factors that have led to such IT system failures, etc., and take measures according to them?
    - (vii) Has the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider established a systematic framework to minimize impacts of IT system failures, etc., such as a system to bypass the affected part?
    - Reference: As reference materialsrelating to the IT system risk, there are, for example, “FISC Security Guidelines on Computer Systems for Banking and Related Financial Institutions” (The Center for Financial Industry Information Systems).

## II-2-3-1-3 Responses in the Event of IT System Failures, etc.
The supervisors shall require a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, upon finding occurrence of an IT system failure or cybersecurity incident, to immediately notify the relevant authorities of the fact and then to make a report to the authorities in a form of the “Report on Occurrence of IT System Failure” (Appended Form 1). In addition, the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider is also required to submit a report on recovery of the system and causes of the system failure when they are identified. Note that in cases where the failure causes are not identified, the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider must report the actual situation within one month from the occurrence of the IT system failure.
Upon receipt of a report from the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider, Local Finance Bureaus shall immediately contact the relevant division of the Financial Services Agency.
- (i) IT system failures, etc. that must be reported Failure or trouble that occurred in IT systems and devices (both hardware and software) currently used by a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider for whatever reason, and
    - (A) that delays or suspends, or may delay or suspend business operations pertaining to the Crypto-Asset Exchange Services; or
    - (B) that may otherwise be deemed similar to above in the course of business. However, even though some of the systems and equipment have such troubles, the reporting requirement is not applicable in cases where a backup system has quickly started up and effectively prevented adverse effects.
    - Even though a failure or trouble does not actually occur, a Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider is required to make a report when the users or business operations are affected or highly likely to be affected because it receives an advance notice of cyberattack or it has found a cyberattack in its IT systems.
- (ii) The supervisory authorities shall require the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider to submit an additional report pursuant to Article 63-15 of the Act, as needed, and if it is found that the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider has a serious problem, the supervisory authorities shall issue an order to improve business operations pursuant to Article 63-16 of the Act.
- (iii) In particular, when a major failure has occurred, or when it takes considerable time for the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider to solve the causes of the failure, the supervisory authorities, while watching the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider activate its contingency plan, including general announcement of the details of the failure to the public and responses to users at its website, etc., requires the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider to promptly identify the causes, and requires a prompt report pursuant to Article 63- 15 of the Act.

## II-2-3-1-4 Responses at the Time of IT System Update and Integration, etc.
When an Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider updates or integrates important IT systems, the supervisors require the Crypto-Asset Exchange Service Provider to submit a report based on Article 63-15 of the Act as needed, and confirm plans and progress, as well as the appropriateness and effectiveness of project management, and then take actions such as issuing an order for business improvement based on Article 63-16 of the Act if significant problems are found.
